#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard

\lang british
Stochastic Cell Fate Choice from Lineage Tracing
\begin_inset space \hfill{}
\end_inset

Gen Zhang
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*

\lang british
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\lang british
Advances in genetic methods for lineage tracing offers a new way to observe
 and dissect cell fate choice.
 Specifically, the ability to tag and eventually observe the fate of individual
 cells allows classification beyond instantaneous expression of RNA or protein.
 We thus build stochastic models which directly predict the fate outcomes
 of progenitor cells in different tissues, and use experimental data to
 quantify the effective parameters in these models.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\lang british
We begin by quantitatively studying mouse oesophageal lining, an extremely
 simple model tissue for stratified epithelia in homoeostasis.
 After establishing that there exists only one progenitor population responsible
 for maintenance, we postulate a simple model of critical branching, and
 measure the parameters of the model from lineage tracing data.
 We use this model to understand drug action and behaviour under wounding.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\lang british
We further develop the theory of branching processes, focusing on the behaviour
 of super-critical processes and the link between cell cycle distribution
 and asymptotic size distribution.
 We establish some novel theorems characterising legitimate asymptotic size
 distributions, and a formula to recover cell cycle distributions from such
 size distributions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\lang british
Finally, we turn to the development of vertebrate central nervous system,
 using the retina as a proxy.
 We first look at rat retinal progenitors in vitro, establishing that a
 stochastic model of fate choice is possible.
 We then turn to zebrafish embryos, which allow live imaging throughout
 the development process.
 Although complex, we find that a simple model is nevertheless sufficient
 to explain the data, though necessarily more descriptive than quantitatively
 precise.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
